Are you wondering what JavaScript framework or library you should learn to land a job in 2019? Let me help you out. In this five-minute video, I'm gonna quickly compare the top three JavaScript frameworks, we're gonna look at their history, their job market, their learning curve, and then I'm gonna tell you what framework to learn to get a front-end or full-stack development job in 2019. 

First let me get the terminology clear: what is the difference between a library and a framework? Some developers use these terms interchangeably but they're different. A library is a collection of reusable code that is used to solve common problems. There are various libraries out there for solving different types of problems. For example, we have libraries for performing mathematical calculations. We have libraries for machine learning and so on. React is a library for building interactive user interfaces if framework.
On the other hand, it gives us a lot of reusable code just like a library but it also provides a structure or a skeleton for building applications. So when using a framework we have to build our application according to that framework. Frameworks have opinions in terms of how we should structure our application, how the application should get started, how various components should interact with each other, and so on. Angular and Vue are both examples of popular frameworks for building front-end applications. Now one of the questions I get a lot is, Masch why do we have to use a framework or a library to build an application? Can we just use plain old JavaScript. The answer is yes, We certainly can but it's a
waste of time, and here is the reason. Imagine you want to build a desk would you buy pieces of wood and put them together or would you go to the forest and cut the trees. First, there is no reason to cut the trees when there are already pieces of wood ready for us to reuse. We use frameworks and libraries to increase our productivity and speed up the development process there is a lot of code that is tested and is ready for us to reuse. so this is all about libraries and frameworks now react angular and view are the top three tools for building applications these days but which one is better? Let's find out. Look at the results of this deck overflow developer server in 2019 that just came out here's the list of the most loved web frameworks, and the winner is React. It is closely followed by vue this year, and angular seems to be losing its popularity compared to previous years. If you look at Google Trends, you can see that react is the most popular library out of the three now. Let's have a quick look at the history of these frameworks. Angular is the oldest of the three, it is developed by Google and was initially released in 2010. until 2016 it used to be called angular js in 2016 angular team released angular 2 which was a complete rewrite of angular js. It had nothing in common with the previous version of angular. It was a completely new framework so to reduce confusion angular team decided to drop the js from the original name and they called the new framework angular this made a lot of developers unhappy any applications that were built with angular js had to be rebuilt with angular. Also over the last three years, there have been several releases of angular and we have experienced several breaking changes. As an online instructor, this made me very unhappy because my angular course got outdated pretty quickly and I had to do a lot of patches to the course at some point I ended up recreating the entire course from scratch but it came soon after the course got out the beta. React is developed and maintained by Facebook and it's been around since 2013 currently it's at version 16 and is being used by Facebook, Twitter, Netflix, PayPal, and Uber to name a few it has a huge community which means somebody out there has already solved the problems you may encounter. So there are tons of third-party libraries packages tools extensions as well as tutorials and courses. Vue or Vue js is the youngest kid in town, unlike angular and react view isn't developed by a big corporation it was originally developed by an ex-googler employee in 2014 and now it's maintained by a group of passionate developers. Even though it's a new framework it has gained a lot of popularity over the past two years.
Now, what about the job market well this depends on where you are located. So wherever you are look at the number of jobs advertised and the most popular job-seeking website here is the number of jobs advertised on indeed.com in the US right now in April 2019 they are roughly about fifty-nine thousand react jobs followed by fourteen thousand angular jobs and three thousand view jobs based on the popularity of React, I would say that you would probably see the same pattern in other countries in the world but that's just my guess. so if you're looking for a job in the u.s. React is the way to go now what about the learning curve. Well, angular has always been famous for having a steep learning curve because it's a full-blown framework or a complete solution in contrast because react is just a library and not a complete solution it has fewer concepts that you need to learn and understand. I would say learning Vue requires roughly the same amount of time and effort, it's easier to learn than angular. some argue that it's even easier than React but it's very subjective. so if you're starting I would say start with react because it's easier to learn than angular and it gives you tons more job opportunities once you learn react if you want to expand your career options or if you're just curious you can learn Vue transitioning from React to Vue is fairly easy and I think that going forward we're gonna see more job opportunities for vue in 2019 and 2020. Another benefit of learning react is that you can quickly learn React native to build mobile apps. React native is the king of cross-platform development so again you will have plenty more job opportunities ahead of you. So, if you're looking for a job as a front-end or a full-stack developer invest your time and energy in React.
Now how do you learn React I have a comprehensive tutorial on my channel. you can see it over here. I've also put the link down below this tutorial. It walks you through all the core concepts of React even though I made it last year in 2018 it's still valid and up to date because react is a stable library and you won't encounter breaking changes. Facebook
takes the stability of React seriously so watch this tutorial first but if you want to master react I had a complete course for you that is 12 hours long it goes far beyond my youtube tutorial and touches on concepts such as building complex user interfaces, routing, app navigation, calling back and API's authentication and authorization handling and login errors and deployment are pretty much all the concepts involved in building real applications in this course you will learn how to build a real video rental application with a node back-end this is an online video course just like my youtube tutorial and you can watch it anytime anywhere as many times as you want you will also receive a certificate of completion at the end that you can add to your resume we even offer a 30-day money-back guarantee. If you're interested use the link below this video to get the course for the discount just remember we have a limited number of coupons so enroll before the coupons run out. If you enjoyed this video please support me by liking and sharing this video also subscribe to my channel for more videos like this and let me know in the comments section about your experience with any of these top three frameworks and your goals.
Thank you and have a fantastic day.

//NEW SCRIPT

Are you looking for the best front-end Js library or framework that you should learn to land a job in 2022? Welcome! You are at the right place. In this video, we are going to focus on a comprehensive comparison of React, Angular, and Vue.
You might have listened several times that
React is a library.
Angular is a framework.
Vue is a framework.
But Do you know, what is the exact difference between library and frameWork?
Both are collections of functions and reuseable code, but you can call the library functions anywhere, anytime in your code. Your code calls the library.
While frameWork gives your code a structure or skeleton. You have to follow the instructions and restrictions imposed. The framework calls your code.
React is a free and open-source front-end JavaScript library for building user interfaces based on UI components. It is maintained by Meta and a community of individual developers and companies.
Angular is a TypeScript-based free and open-source web application framework led by the Angular Team at Google and by a community of individuals and corporations.
Vue Js is an open-source front-end JavaScript framework for building user interfaces and single-page applications. It was created by Evan You, who is an ex-google employee.

These three are the most popular frameworks in the world of front end web development. Let's first explore their usecase.
Vue is the most easier one to learn and get started.it is the best choice for the novice developers who are not familiar with the advanced concepts of javascript.
It suits best for the smaller applications.
React is also easy to learn and get started library but a bit harder than vue. It works with a large number of extra modules and components that makes the core library
small but requires a lot of third party dependencies.React is the best choice for experienced programmers and developers who has worked on the advaced js concepts like 
object oriented and functional javascript.
Angular is a full fledge solution that does not require external dependencies but it has the most steep learning curve and hard to learn for new developers. It is suitable 
for the developers who have advanced knowledge of javascript and a good knowledge of typescript too.

Let's compare their popularity. React used have a huge edge over angular and vue js in popularity but in past few years vue has suddenly overtaken react with highest number of stars on 
its github repositry. Still react has the highest number of watchers and forks on github. Vue is getting popular day by day but react doesn't seems leaving its place too. 

Job market and salalry of frameworks varies on the basis of the your location. Accordig to Google trends React have the highest job market in the world with angular following it. 
Vue is the most adolscent one, having the least job opportunities but its immense growth will bring more vast opportunities in future for sure. 
In Pakistan's job market, react completely owns the stage.There are highest number of job opportunities in React and very few in Vue Js.
Salaries are largely dependent on the location. In USA react is the highly paid with $94k/per year while in pakistan Angular leads with salary of RS.952k per year.

Moving towards conclusion, No one is superior, choose according to your usecase.
If you are looking for more job opportunities, go for React.
If you are going to develop large scale, enterprise ready applications, go for Angular.
If you are a beginner and don't have enough knowledge of JS go for Vue Js.